# Course Summary #
- The study in this course throughout the semester is a meaningful experience for me. Through insightful discussions with classmates, I get to widen my understanding of the topic of robotics. 
- For the technical content, we learned how to simulate and design our own ecosystems in Processing. The biggest takeaway here is that for many of the robots that display complicated behavior and personalities, the algorithms are actually so much simpler than we thought. For example, I remember in the reading “Vehicle”, the little vehicle displays a character of being afraid. However, the basic logic here is just to let the vehicle leaves from where there is light. I enjoy the experience of trying to create my own ecosystem using the techniques learned in class. I try to mimic how frogs and tadpoles live and grow in the pond. During this process, I realize that there are so many influential factors like sunlight and food sources that could change the creatures’ behavior, just like how people are influenced by multiple social and environmental factors, as well as how robots may be affected by receiving data and information from the outside world.
The readings and discussions with brilliant classmates are so inspiring. Previously, “robot” is just one vague, illusory, and far-off concept that only appears in science fiction because I believed that today we still have not got robots with incredibly human-like appearances and high intelligence. However, I start to realize that the idea of robots has already been associated with our everyday lives. The topic of robots could be about tech toys, social media, and avatars, mobile AI assistance, etc... What is fascinating to me is that although we spend a lot of time discussing artificial robots, we seem to touch a lot upon the discussion about humans ourselves and our humanities. I remember we once talked about how robots/aliens are used as metaphors in science-fictional novels for minority groups and races like Jewish people and Gypsies. Treating robots is not only about what attitudes we humans should hold towards fancy technologies, but about how we should treat someone that is similar to us, while different in certain aspects. I am also impressed by the week about the Black Mirror episode which addresses the question of whether robots could develop human emotions. It is still a puzzle for us to solve about how emotion is generated inside our brains. And I start to wonder what emotions really mean to us — why emotion seems to be a necessary component for a humanoid which wants to resemble humans? Why does the female protagonist of the Black Mirror episode feel desperate when the robot husband just does what she told him to do? What are we expecting from the emotional exchange? I guess that’s because humans just think so differently in regard to the emotional topics due to differences in educational and family backgrounds and even genes, therefore the “unexpected reactions” from others become one fascinating experience we anticipate receiving from socializing. However, for robots, I don’t believe that one day we can really jump out of the box of the several emotional models we try to add to robots and find out how emotion really works in reality.
The course is so engaging and thought-provoking that I fall into deep thinking in almost every topic we have come up with. Just like what we have always said at the end of each conversation, on the topic of robots, we still can not give one certain conclusion on everything as we still need time to see it happen. However, as Singularity has told us, technology grows so exponentially, the future is near us and it is time for us to think about how we should behave in the coming new era of humans living with robots.


