- The reading “Chapter 5: Toys, Totems, and Tools” from the book The Living Brain mainly talks about the attempt of machines to imitate behaviors. The reading first conducts a brief summary of the history of worship totems. The reading question focuses on the difference in humans’ attitudes towards totems and robots. - The discussion is inspiring and gives out an interesting point of view that creating totems and robots is a way for humans to understand themselves.
- Then, the author talks about two ways of behavior imitation – the top line of nerve system simulation, and the bottom line of finding out the character and principles behind the behaviors. The question here is which way is better. In the discussion, we come out with the idea that knowing both of the mechanisms may have a mutually positive effect on each other. 
- After that, the chapter introduces the machine Machina Speculatrix and summarizes its principles of it. The class shares brilliant insights on how they view these principles. Self-recognition might be essential as it builds the basis for other principles like Parsimony, Speculation, and discernment. There are also doubts on whether self-recognition and mutual recognition could be separate. One tricky point for this kind of machine is that we do not get the printed notification about what is going on inside the machine. However, it somehow makes it closer to how animal brains work. Finally, the reading touches upon the discriminatory recognition circuit, which is very thought-provoking and the class has raised multiple viewpoints about human biases. 
- Along the same lines, Chapter 2 of “Flesh and Machines” investigates Grey Walter’s tortoises as an attempt to reproduce exploratory and speculative animal behaviors mechanically. Using a combination of sensors, actuators, and motors, Walter was able to prove that biological principles can be applied in robotics and that rich connections between a small number of components can result in very complex behaviors. By conducting several experiments, he concluded that even a seemingly very simple creature can have extremely complex behaviors in the physical world because of the way that small variations in what is sent, and how the actuators interact with the world, can change their behaviors. From an observing perspective, these emergent behaviors can be easily associated with human characteristics including intelligence, self-awareness, free will, and determination. Whereas at the development stage, it is hard to implement theoretical, psychological, and neurological constructs on a physically embodied system. In contrast to the tortoises, SAIL’s rover Cart appeared to be a failure despite the massive amount of money, research, and time allocated to its construction. In fact, to an external observer, all the internal cogitation was barely worth it, especially since the robot’s behavior and interaction with the environment were non-satisfactory. In short, it appears that simple approaches to robotics might lead to more interesting results.


