- This course had so many discussions on whether robots could have human emotions, while this presentation focuses on emotions on a different perspective. The topic is “Why we love robots”, which analyzes the reasons why human people could have emotional connections to robots. 
- The first section is about the history of dolls. Humans have a long history of appreciating human-like objects. Dolls are considered spiritual and with social meanings. Many traditions believe that God formed the first human from the dirt of the earth. In Adrienne Mayor’s book “Gods and Robots”, there are mythic autonomous machines which could be seen as the earliest version of robots. Dolls also model gender roles and teach people how to behave in society. Today, people tech toys for the use of mental care and companion. 
- Secondly, the presentations compares human emotions towards animals with those towards robots. Based on a survey on people’s attitude towards the robot dog — Aibo, it shows that although people attributed animal characteristics to the robot and viewed it as a family member, they tended to treat Aibo more as a technological artifact than a real living dog. Also, people appreciate dogs for features such as personalities, empathy, and attachment.
- In the third section, this presentation addresses on robot love. Personification is one explanation for people liking robots. Examples like the dinosaur robot Pleo shows that we feel pain when the robot dinosaur screams and cries. The mirroring behaviour of robots also add on to their likability. There are both advantages and obstacles for people falling in love with robots, and whether the social norm could accept robot love is still a question waiting to be answered. 
- Finally, the presentations states that how we treat robots is a reflection of our own humanities. It is a question of how can robots change people’s empathy. Even robot might not have the ability to feel, our behaviours towards this type of human-like machines might matter for us as human beings. 
- The discussion section is thought-provoking. Classmates raise wonderful opinions on questions like whether loving a “real” person matter for us, whether human could make sacrifices for robots in human-robot love relationships, whether we could have unbiased empathy for everything around us, etc.. Although the fact that we humans do have the ability to have emotional connections to robots seem so obvious, it is still an interesting question to think out when we want to dig out the deep psychological and social factors behind this phenomenon. 
